### Using A Shared "C" Library Dynamically - Programming Interface

One of the less-commonly used feature of shared libraries is the ability to link them to a process anytime during its life. The linking method we showed earlier makes the shared library automatically loaded by the dynamic loader of the system. Yet, it is possible to make a linking operation at any other time, using the 'dl' library. This library provides us with a means to load a shared library, reference any of its symbols, call any of its functions, and finally detach it from the process when no longer needed.

Here is a scenario where this might be appealing: suppose that we wrote an application that needs to be able to read files created by different word processors. Normally, our program might need to be able to read tens of different file formats, but in a single run, it is likely that only one or two such document formats will be needed. We could write one shared library for each such format, all having the same interface (readfile and writefile for example), and one piece of code that determines the file format. Thus, when our program is asked to open such a file, it will first determine its format, then load the relevant shared library that can read and translate that format, and call its readfile function to read the document. We might have tens of such libraries, but only one of them will be placed in memory at any given time, making our application use less system resources. It will also allow us to ship the application with a small set of supported file formats, and add new file formats without the need to replace the whole application, by simply sending the client an additional set of shared libraries.